# Tableau Homework - Citi Bike Analytics

## Summary:
The Citi Bike Analytics assignment examines the impact on bike rentals in 2020 due to Covid-19, also known as the Coronavirus.  The timeframe for this analysis compares Summer 2019 bike rentals to Summer 2020 bike rentals. In 2020, a majority of the country implemented some form of lock-down procedure and many people that typically work in an office setting resorted to working from home.  How has the virus and subsequent lockdown impacted the number of rentals during an otherwise popular time of year in one of the most populated cities in America?

Tableau Notebook link https://public.tableau.com/profile/christy.patrick#!/vizhome/CitiBikeAnalytics_16099853300790/StartMap?publish=yes

## Map Visualizations 
To begin, all starting stations have been plotted on a map of New York City with the markers sized and colored based on the number of rentals in the summer of 2020.  Similarly, a map was created with all ending stations with the markers sized and colored based on the number of rentals in the summer of 2020.  The starting stations map indicates that a majority of rentals occured from Midtown Manhattan to Lower Manhattan.  The most popular starting location is 12th Ave & W 40th Street with 39,243 rentals in the summer of 2020.  The ending stations map also indicates that a majority of rental stops occured from Midtown Manhattan to Lower Manhattan.  The most popular starting location is 12th Ave & W 40th Street with 39,539 rentals in the summer of 2020.    

To examine the impact of Covid on the most popular locations, two street view maps were generated to examine the top 5 stations with the highest number of rentals.  In 2019, three of the most popular stations were located inland just south of midtown while two stations were located along the western coast.  In 2020, three of the top five stations were located along the mid to lower west side and one located on the southwestern corner of Central Park.  Based on this data, it appears that the most popular rental locations in 2019 were near office buildings and residential areas while in 2020 the most popular rental locations were near recreational areas and not concentrated in the office and residentials areas.   

### 2019 vs 2020 Dashboard
The first dashboard illustrates the overall impact of the virus on the number of rentals in the summer of 2020 versus the number of rentals in the summer of 2019.  In June and July of 2020, the number of rentals is quite lower compared to 2019.  However, in August 2020, the number of rentals is near the number of rentals in August 2019.  This highlights that in early summer, people remained at home more and that in August some restrictions were lifted and people began to get out more.

In comparing the time of day that people rent bikes, it can be seen that in 2019 there were spikes in the number of rentals when people typically go into work in the morning (7-10am) and leave work in the evening (4-7pm).  In 2019, there is not much difference in the number of rentals in June, July, and August.  In 2020, you can see that instead of the peaks in the morning and evening, there is a more gradual climb in the number of rentals throughout the day with the peak occuring between about 4pm and 7pm.  This shift is likely due to more people working from home and not going into the office in the early morning hours.  However, people are still getting out in the evenings to move about town, exercise, run errands, etc.  In 2020, the start times visual confirms that more rentals are occuring in August during the afternoon hours although the general shape of the line is the same. 

In comparing the time of day that people end their bike rentals, it can be seen that in 2019 there were spikes in the number of rentals when people typically go into work in the morning (7-10am) and leave work in the evening (4-7pm).  In 2019, there is not much difference in the number of rentals in June, July, and August.  In 2020, you can see that there is a small peak in the morning for July and August and there is a more gradual climb in the number of rentals throughout the day with the peak occuring between about 4pm and 7pm.  This shift is also likely due to more people working from home and not going into the office in the early morning hours, especially in June 2020.  However, people are still getting out in the evenings to move about town, exercise, run errands, etc.  In 2020, the end times visual also confirms that more rentals are occuring in August during the afternoon hours although the general shape of the line is the same. 

### 2019 vs 2020 by Gender Dashboard
The second dashboard compares the affect of the virus on male and female bike rentals.  The first chart displays the number of rentals by gender in 2019 and 2020.  From this visual, you can see that there were more women rentals in 2020 than 2019, but less male renters in 2019 than 2020.  More research could be used to determine why more women were renting bikes during the pandemic, but one possibility includes the desire to exercise in the outdoors rather than having the ability to go into a gym and take a fitness class (many gyms were closed during some phases of the pandemic).

The second chart on the dashboard examines the differences in user types by gender during the summer of 2019 and 2020.  This chart indicates that the number of female customers increased more in 2020 than the number of customers in 2019.  The number of female subscribers remained relatively consistent from 2019 to 2020.  This indicates that while females with a subscription kept their subscriptions, more female were getting out on the bike for one time rentals.  For males, the number of customers grew slightly between 2019 and 2020; however the number of subscribers dropped most drastically between 2019 and 2020.  This drop is likely due to the lockdown and many people working from home.  These males likely dropped their subscriptions if they were not using the bikes to travel into the office.

Create a Tableau story that brings together the visualizations, maps, and dashboards (professional, logical, visually appealing)


